---
title: "CS EJ4104"
date: 2020-11-18T19:14:56+02:00
draft: true
---
# The DevOps Course - CS-EJ4104 at Aalto University
Reasons why I decided to take the DevOps Course - CS-EJ4104: and expectations:
* I am very interested in Computing Studies in general and wanted to get overall view of some of the newer fundamentals in computing science since I originally studied the subject back in 2004-2008.
* I have some background knowledge in coding, however this is totally different to what I was used to and once I gain further understanding I will be able to apply these learnings to future projects and gains in my studies and professional life.
* I expected to learn the principles of version control, implementing Git and GitHub and understanding how it fits together with modern projects and coding, how it can be used to facilitate changes whilst being able to roll them back to an original format.
* Understand the basics of what DevOps actually is. The idea has existed for a long time, but version control used to be so clumber some and difficult when collaborating with others.
* I also wanted to gain further understanding of other practices to help guide my studies into other subjects relating to computing to get my knowledge up to speed with current modern techniques and their ways of working. Building on my existing knowledge and learnings I have from high school and throughout my professional life.
* Connecting and networking is also extremely practical here, seeing how other people do things and how I can implement the best practices from others into my personal ways of working.

20-11-2020
