---
title: "Learning Devops"
date: 2020-11-18T18:23:50+02:00
draft: false
---
#Things I've learnt and things I'm still learning/practicing:
* Git / Github - I've learnt what Git is and does: How it manages version controls in a streamlined way which allows collaborators to implement and deploy new changes quickly, whilst maintaining the ability to revert back to a previous working form. The resilience in this kind of technology cannot be overstated. It is the biggest, best way to manage changes I have seen in nearly 2 decades.
* GitHub Repositories - What they are and how they work. How they can be implemented both as a live working model but also as a base for a project for either a single person or a group of people. It was initially a lot to take in from an understanding perspective of exactly how it stores data, and how it makes this process efficient. Where it stores the data and how branches are used. My brain initially wants to 'folderise' them however it is a little more complicated than that so coming to terms with this process was an important learning curve for me.
* Utilising automation and keeping both a 'source code' for a website and a live website separate without keeping it on a local machine. This gives amazing benefits from working in a team perspective; as lots of collaborators can easily access the current completed code and even document it in a very detailed way further enhancing peoples synergetic workflows and allowing people to pick components of the project up and put them down again, making it readily available to all.
* Difference between Continuous Deployment and Continuous Integration, the idea of one being the complete cycle of the project which can be broken down into smaller chunks to be reviewed regularly rather than waiting until the end to finalise and view. In fact, whilst writing this I have made some small changes to the text and formatting and saved it, ran it back in Hugo and reviewed it all in the space of a few minutes. Comparing this to original methods could have taken a lot longer as I wouldn't have been able to do all of these processes locally without seeing how they appear in a live setting. 
